*steps*
What is the difference
between mass and weight? I think it's
something that a lot of people are
confused about.
They just think that anything that's big
like this car
has a lot of weight, is very heavy
it's gotta lot of mass and people just
basically think of these ideas
as all the same. But there's an important
distinction between the terms
mass and weight. Mass at first is the amount of
matter in an object whereas weight is a
force.
It's the gravitational attraction that
the object feels
towards in this case the Earth's center. So
got a little experiment
today where I brought my car at here and ask some people.
Why is it difficult to push my car? And my bet is the answer will be because the car is heavy. (no duh)
Because it's heavy. Because it's too heavy. (we get it, your car is heavy.)
A big rock you would think would be
heavy
It's too heavy.
It's been lighter than I thought. It is because its weight.
Weight is responsible. What is weight? Weight is mass in a gravity.
What it this gravity thing?
Gravity is what keeps ...
*talking indecisively*
Your car is pulled towards at the center
of the earth
yes. But now when you push it, as in pushing your car, you are not pushing it up.
Do you know what I mean? But it's still hard to push. Yeah
So do you think weight is responsible for making it hard to push?
But I'm not trying
to lift the car and I'm just trying to push it
A big rock you would think would
be heavy. Anything that is big
we think it would be heavy but I'm not
lifting it on pushing so it's also gravity
but this is my question right? but
I'm not trying to lift it
No, thats true. But it's
still hard to push.
So why is that? because like if I
lift it, I understand
you are saying it's heavy and it'd be really hard but we're pushing it actually
getting it to go
So how does that work.
The answer is
because the car has inertia.
Inertia means
that objects with mass have a tendency to resist
changes in their motion. And I thought
she had a great answer when I started
which was inertia
Can you tell us about that? What's inertia?
It's just like once something stops
it doesn't really wanna go unless something is going. It doesn't mind and would stop.
The idea that I'm trying to get
is actually is that it's these are actually two different things.
Right? One thing is that there's a force
pulling a stand into the earth
and that's what we call weight and that
makes it impossible to lift
but there's something else which is
called inertia and that mean something
is difficult to
change its motion because got a lot of
inertia
and that's why it's difficult to push
which is different than when it's difficult
to lift.
Which is the weight force pulling it down
towards here
Fair enough but it's actually not as
difficult to push. It's not that hard
yeah I know it doesn't prove my point (Subtitles by Jimena)